Kimberly Camanero (kcamaner@ucsc.edu)

Collaborated:
I went to MESA Tutoring on Sunday and collaborated with one of the tutors. Her name is Jasmine, and she helped me out with the MatrixInverse function as well as the MatrixEquals command. I was making a mistake in the 2x2 determinant and using DIM instead of using i<2. Also my equals code is on top grayed out, while the one she helped me with is being used in code. Although the inverse function is in my MatrixMath.c file I cannot get the function to work properly. Something in my test cases must be wrong (expected result)

Summary:
We used Nested Loops, or loops inside loops and we do this so the code can look for different elements inside the matrix. This lab was basically a calculator for matrices and had different functions. We had to come up with the functions and to make sure our matrix calculator was working efficiently we had to do all the calculations by hand and do test cases in which was used as an answer key by the program. This is the expected value, and with these values the program saw if the functions were working properly and if the test cases passed.  I think the important aspects and things we should take from this lab are the nested loops. How to have loops inside other loops and really see how they work, and seeing their own individual functions. I think that was the most important skill I would take from this lab. Learning how to look for an element of a matrix was also very fun and pretty useful too, to have general knowledge for C coding. Also I head in upper division classes like CSE101. You aren't given files anymore, so this lab was useful in the sense that it made us create our own files, like make our own libraries. (At least that was the concept I studied because it said so in the manual) This lab really got me used to working with multiple files and seeing them come together to make ONE output. I like the sense of working with more than one file because I know it prepares you for upper division courses.

Approach:
At first I wanted to hard code it, and I did. But then I saw in the manual that that was not allowed therefore I had to learn how to do nested loops or loops inside another loop. My approach was irritating variables and starting off at 0,0 in the matrix. With i++ it would go up by one and so on. J was inside i, so j++ would do its thing first and would go through the 3 elements before going to the next i. That was my approach. My function Matrixequals was not working and because of that NONE of my functions were working to begin with even though the code for the functions were correct. I spent so much time working on my other functions trying to figure out what was wrong when the root of the problem lies within matrix equals. I went to Lab and the TA’s didn;t know how to help me therefore went to MESA Tutoring for CSE13s, and was able to get help there. Once that was fixed most of my functions started working. The only sizes we used was 3, which is why I was having a little trouble with sub matrix and only ½ worked for my functions and I am unsure if it is the decimals in my expected result. I would do the same approach expect don't hard code it at the beginning and don't waste time.

Time:
First I had ro research the concepts, for example how to do libraries yourself, or how to look for certain elements in an array. I had to figure out how memory worked and that itself took about 3 days. The weekend I spent doing the actual functions for every operation that was required in the lab. Previous knowledge of C++ Helped me with the variables and understanding the meaning behind i + + and j++, and the meaning and significance they had with rows and columns and how each of them work. I worked on test cases ALL DAY Sunday, Monday, and Basically up until Tuesday 11:30 pm. (one of them did not work (inverse)) I really enjoyed making the functions. I thought that was pretty fun, I did not like doing the test cases. At least setting everything up, I think it was very time consuming and it was just busy work. I think the main point of the lab and the core was the functions. I think we should’ve gotten more time considering how long it took to do the test cases, but also I think maybe a template or test cases should have been provided to the students. I’m really glad we get the one point cushion though! 


